---
identifier: oai:repositorio.uchile.cl:2250/182392
titulo: "Extensao universitaria nos cursos de graduacao em direito"
autores:
  - Duro Dias, Renato
anio: 2021
fecha: 2021-10-25T21:05:14Z
tipo: "Artículo de revista"
publisher: Universidade do Estado do Rio de Janeiro, Brasil
idioma: pt
materias:
  - "University extension"
  - "Law graduation"
  - "Legal education"
  - "Curriculum"
  - "Extensão universitária"
  - "Graduação em direito"
  - "Educação jurídica"
  - "Currículo"
urls:
  - https://repositorio.uchile.cl/handle/2250/182392
fuente: uch
capa: 1
estado_revision: oai-metadata-only
---

# Extensao universitaria nos cursos de graduacao em direito

**Autor(es):** Duro Dias, Renato

**Año:** 2021  **Tipo:** Artículo de revista

## Resumen

This article intends to address the extension curriculum in Law Undergraduate Courses having as a starting point the recent Resolution n degrees. 5 of the CNE / CES, of December 17, 2018, which instituted the National Curricular Guidelines of the Law Undergraduate Course. In this sense, the present investigation, with a qualitative approach (BOGDAN and BIKLEN, 1994) and with content analysis (BARDIN, 2011), discusses the main public policies for higher education with a focus on university extension and legal education, seeking to understand the texts and policy cycles, as well as their interference in the field of law. First, it seeks to present the legal and conceptual frameworks of university extension for Brazilian higher education. In a second step, university extension is addressed with emphasis on Resolution CNE / CES No. 9, of September 29, 2004, which instituted the National Curricular Guidelines for the Law Graduation Course. At the end, the challenges and limits presented by the new Resolution No. 5 of the CNE / CES, of December 17, 2018, are problematized, seeking to understand what the meanings expressed therein and the powers that may reveal the extension curriculum in Undergraduate Courses in Law in Brazil. It is hoped that the debate over this article can serve as an initial theoretical framework for a discussion that involves, above all, thinking about the formation of the Bachelor of Laws from a humanistic, social and critical perspective.
