---
identifier: oai:repositorio.uft.cl:20.500.12254/7453
titulo: "Social and health factors affecting work-related accidents among older informal workers in Chile: A probit model analysis based on CASEN 2022"
autores:
  - Alvear Vega, Sandra
  - Arenas Massa, Ángela
anio: 2026
fecha: 2026-01-20T12:24:37Z
tipo: "Article"
publisher: Elsevier
idioma: en
materias:
  - "Social determinants of health"
  - "Occupaitional health"
  - "Elderly"
  - "Wrok accident"
  - "Prevention work accident"
urls:
  - https://hdl.handle.net/20.500.12254/7453
  - https://orcid.org/0000-0003-3188-0189
  - https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ssaho.2025.102231
fuente: uft
capa: 1
estado_revision: oai-metadata-only
---

# Social and health factors affecting work-related accidents among older informal workers in Chile: A probit model analysis based on CASEN 2022

**Autor(es):** Alvear Vega, Sandra, Arenas Massa, Ángela

**Año:** 2026  **Tipo:** Article

## Resumen

Background: Given the demographic change that Chile is experiencing, more and more older people are participating in the labor market.

Objective: This study aims to understand the social and health factors that affect occupational accidents among older people in Chile who do not have an employment contract.

Methods: Data from the 2022 National Socioeconomic Characterization Survey were used to achieve this objective. A total of 3946 people were included in this study. A probit model was used to determine Average Marginal Effects (AMEs). The model classified 90 percent of the data accurately.

Results: According to the AMEs, older adults without a formal employment contract who are more likely to experience a work-related accident are men (0.061), aged between 60 and 65 years (0.119), with a low educational level (0.144), of indigenous descent (0.227), residing in urban areas (0.102), social insolation (0.108), without internet access (0.085), undergoing medical check-ups (0.562), diagnosed with hypertension (0.381), diabetes (0.397), or depression (0.247), experiencing food limitations due to lack of financial resources (0.242), and belonging to the middle-income group.

Conclusion: It can be inferred from this study that it is necessary to promote positive aging and comprehensive care for the elderly in the workplace to reduce work-related accidents and to strengthen the institutional framework for the elderly by regulating a special labor contract for this age group that would make their hiring conditions more flexible in order to encourage formality among the elderly who wish to remain in the labor market. Active policy interventions are required to improve the quality of employment for this vulnerable group.
