---
identifier: oai:repositorio.uft.cl:20.500.12254/3973
titulo: "Desafíos clínicos y normativos de la internación forzada en Chile, en virtud de la nueva Ley de Salud Mental"
autores:
  - Rosel Barnieri, Leonardo
  - Pigozzi Sandoval, Pier Paolo
  - Arenas Massa, Ángela
anio: 2024
fecha: 2024-12-04T11:47:31Z
tipo: "Article"
publisher: Sociedad Médica de Santiago
idioma: es
materias:
  - "Human rights"
  - "Involuntary treatment"
  - "Mental health"
urls:
  - https://hdl.handle.net/20.500.12254/3973
  - https://orcid.org/0000-0001-7182-4582
  - https://orcid.org/0000-0003-3188-0189
  - http://dx.doi.org/10.4067/s0034-98872023000400497
fuente: uft
capa: 1
estado_revision: oai-metadata-only
---

# Desafíos clínicos y normativos de la internación forzada en Chile, en virtud de la nueva Ley de Salud Mental

**Autor(es):** Rosel Barnieri, Leonardo, Pigozzi Sandoval, Pier Paolo, Arenas Massa, Ángela

**Año:** 2024  **Tipo:** Article

## Resumen

Forced hospitalization is a common practice in psychiatry. It involves limiting the patient’s freedom of movement in a clinical context without expressing informed consent, causing stress to the family and support network. Thus, forced hospitalization may cause violations, disturbances, or threats to the human rights of a vulnerable population. Considering this clinical reality, the present study seeks to analyze the current law on this subject in Chile compared to the international human rights guidelines. The analysis included a review of legal documents and referenced scientific articles. The new law No. 21,331 establishes a more demanding standard for the origin of forced internment, shortening the distance concerning the human rights guidelines regarding intellectual disability. The incoming development of the regulations mandated by the law could fill in the gaps in several situations that may arise and clarify fuzzy points. The key stakeholders’ participation level will be critical in this matter. regulations mandated by the law could fill in the gaps in several situations that may arise and clarify fuzzy points. The key stakeholders' participation level will be critical in this matter.
